# Pedestrian Detection and Tracking using Kalman Filter and KLT Tracker

Pedestrian detection and tracking is an important problem in the field of computer vision and is still being researched. Similar it may sound, but pedestrian detection and tracking are two separate problems. In this description, I shall discuss both the two problems, give a brief literature survey and then describe the approach that I have taken to tackle these problems.

Generally, a basic object detection problem is defined as finding a given object of interest in any given image of a fixed size. Therefore, given an image of predefined size, the object detector must decide if the image is of the object of interest or not. However, in practice, real images can have the objects of interest in any possible location inside the image. Morever, the size of the object in real images need not be equal to the predefined size, that is, the object can be at different scale levels (zoom levels) inside the image. In order to cope with this, we use a basic object detector and use sliding window and scale space to try to detect objects inside the images. In the context of pedestrian detection, what it means is that given any monocular image that may or may not contain pedestrians, we want to detect pedestrians inside this image and indicate it's location by drawing a (preferably tight) bouding box around the pedestrian. One of the most popular method to detect pedestrians is based on [Histogram of Gradients HOG](https://lear.inrialpes.fr/people/triggs/pubs/Dalal-cvpr05.pdf) by Navneet and Dalal. We shall be using HOG in our work to detect pedestrians.

A tracking problem by nature works with video signals. Generally, a basic tracking problem is defined as tracking a fixed object inside a video signal. In practice, however, we may want to track multiple objects that may or may not get occluded due to each other or due to other objects that are part of the scene of the video. Major challenges of tracking involve abrupt changes in the motion of objects, changing appearance of objects due to change in pose, illumniation etc., changing appearance of the scene, non-rigid object structures and occlusion.
